blog/pages/microblog.md, before:

---
permalink: false
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: tir, meta

content:

*\*Looking at the wrecks of the Chinese site\** What a fucking mess… Yet I cannot and *will* not remove it. Just keep it as a mess. One day I will have the motivation to work on it.

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: media, bookworming, wings-of-fire

content:

*Wings of Fire* book 16??? Gotta reread the previous arcs now! On a completely unrelated note I found my old *WoF* fanfic from like 2021. It's a seesaw between "I was a genius" and "what the fuck was I thinking."

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: ramble

content:

Past-me has a severe advantage over present-me. She always beats me to everything.

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: ramble

content:

*\*Doing homework\** I cringe with every word I type… is this really my writing??

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: status, ramble

content:

Someone save me and my sleep schedule…

---

date: 2026-01-30

tags: media, playing, blue-prince, lorelei

content:

Blue Prince: You did a great job solving these puzzles, I will give you this entire mansion with all the land around it! Three times!

Lorelei: You did a great job solving these puzzles, I will give you a one-dollar bill!

---

date: 2026-01-29

tags: ramble

content:

My parents used to chase me around with lip balm. Now I'm applying it out of my own volition. How the tides have turned.

---

date: 2026-01-29

tags: playing, media, lorelei

content:

Re: [#28](#28): Whoops, didn't manage to catch everything in the screenshots. Walkthrough guides still saved my ass though.

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: ramble, wings-of-fire

content:

I relate more and more to Blue. I find myself wondering more and more what goes on in the lives of other people? What made them the way they are? What different experiences did they have? What would I have looked like if I grew up in their shoes? On the internet too. This guy making detailed game guides? That artist who hasn't posted in years?

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: meta, webdev

content:

I, like, immediately changed my mind about the checkbox and exclude tags thing. You're now back to only viewing a single tag at a time.

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

This interrogation shit is easy; just screenshot everything!

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: meta, webdev

content:

Added a bunch of useless new features to the microblog LOL. Now you can include and exclude multiple tags, as well as jump to the last post you read — though the latter requires JS. It does not care if you actually read the posts; it just stores the number of posts there were last time you visited and take you there should there be newer posts. So if you refresh the page, the value gets overridden.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

This game also gives you no way to back out of entering passwords. You have to enter a wrong password to quit the screen. Like some humiliation ritual.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

Hey, I have an idea. If you make a game with those "atmospheric" background music you're legally obliged to include an option to switch to a happier track.

With all seriousness though, this game doesn't even have settings to adjust volume, let alone disable background music while still allowing sound effects.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Playing Lorelei made me feel so smart because I could solve a decent number of puzzles myself. Dunno if I found Blue Prince mods earlier would I feel the same about that game though…

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Great, Blue Prince ruined me, I saw "foyer" in Lorelei and got excited, thinking the hallways are all unlocked today.

Spoilers: they aren't.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Blue Prince made me scared of dates and the number 8. Lorelei made me scared of years and the number 4.

That's just great. Now I'm scared of the whole calendar.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

I'm already freaked half to death! This isn't even a horror game, just a puzzle game! And a good one at that. I'm definitely writing a blog post when I finish this.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: status

content:

Me: I would finish the animation today!

Also me: slid on the snow, reached a hand out to hold onto a brick wall, successfully prevented myself from falling but cut my hand a tiny bit.

Also me, a spoiled princess: my hand hurts I will not be drawing today.

---

date: 2026-01-25

tags: tir, tadlet-kingdom

content:

Y'know, I've always been obsessed with *logical* actions characters take, and focusing on that too much makes me disregard the logical action *characters* take — what's in-character for them to do? Humans don't always take the most logical course of action. In fact, they *rarely* do. I think, in recognizing this, I can hopefully write characters with more personalities; and also make things easier for myself.

For example (this is from *Tadlet Kingdom Adventures* which has been privated for the time being) after Snowy assassinated Cloud and the Hamster police tore off a piece of her cloak, won't she ditch the cloak as soon as possible so she won't get recognized for the tear? But if that's the case, how the gang finds out that Snowy is the assassin would be a lot more convoluted (because I wrote that part not realizing the most logical action is to ditch the cloak). Also, keeping the cloak on signifies that Snowy is a dumbass, too arrogant to think the stupid hamsters would find her, and too confident in the Dog Tadlet Crown would have her back. Or maybe I'm just making excuses, who knows.

---

date: 2026-01-20

tags: tir, sparky

content:

Instead of pouring leftovers in the trash, Sparky's family throws it in Sparky's mouth.

---

date: 2026-01-20

tags: tir, sparky

content:

Sparky would get paid in Starcorp shares, zero real money. But she sells it all immediately after she gets them.

---

date: 2026-01-19

tags: 中文, 维语

content:

就像个小笨蛋似的天天抄课文……

---

date: 2026-01-17

tags: media, cains-jawbone

content:

Found my old (not that old) Cain's Jawbone notes… The urge to pick it back up…

---

date: 2026-01-17

tags: media, bookworming

content:

As much as I hate *Spy School*, the crown still has to go to *Mrs. Smith's Spy School for Girls*. Even *Spy School* can't manage to traumatize me 2 chapters in.

---

date: 2026-01-16

tags: ramble, blue-prince, media, playing

content:

I've grown more emotional as I've grown older, I think? I had watched through a lot of sad stuff as a kid and I never felt a thing, but now reading *Swim Bird*, a children's book inside a video game, drove me nearly to tears.

---

date: 2026-01-14

tags: ramble

content:

I suddenly realized, liking digital collecting explains a lot about my feeling of emptiness. It's like I collect my *own* OCs, and my collection is never complete, so I feel agonized over it, but there is no game data file I can rip everything from; I actually have to *create* them myself!

I have all the Blue Prince room thumbnails that I ripped, and the Polytopia assets that the devs had so generously shared on the internet. I used to have them on my old computer too, and now I haven't unzipped this new copy yet LOL. Now that I'm more self-aware about it, what can I collect next?

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: tir, pumpkin, halcyon

content:

Pumpkin be like: no one can find holes in a true cover story! Honey a true cover story is not a cover story. It's literally you. He's so not cut out for the secret world. Halcyon made the wrong choice, he wanted a doormat but got a, IDK, squeaky plank on the floor.

Still thinking about how the WIS finds out "Curly" is Pumpkin and how they screw him over.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: meta

content:

Still cannot decide how to tag stuff to save my life… Took on a tag set more identical to the main blog.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: tir, pumpkin, candlelight, paracosming, ramble

content:

But on a more positive note, Candlelight Back Home inspiration! So this one is a little interesting. It's based off of a bit of non-TIR-related paracosming I've been doing for a while (the entire plotline is, from its inception). And I've incorporated it into Candlelight's story. Now, I won't ever share this non-TIR-related paracosm with anyone else. But I'm actually sharing its content with you since I literally adapted its plotline here.

To be honest, I'm not really happy that I'm paracosming more about this insane real-life AU than TIR lately. And I get all the stuff I used to get with TIR too, replaying nearly-identical scenes in my head over and over. And I don't like it. Because it's based off of real-life and really, really cringe. But I know I cannot stop the paracosm train, so I just adapt that stuff into TIR.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: meta

content:

Feeling awful at the Chinese site again… why does that thing always bring me the most agony. I need to accept that it would always be hell to maintain and would always be outdated and incomplete.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: ramble

content:

I need to start writing down reasons why I rejected ideas. Because I keep getting the same ideas again and forgetting why they were scraped the first time I got them.

---

date: 2026-01-09

tags: webdev, blue-prince

content:

The Blue Prince House Builder is coming along well! Sometimes, I wonder if anyone is actually going to like these sorts of silly projects. But who cares, if I enjoy the process of making it, and learned from it? But that always brings me to the more difficult question — did I truly learn anything from it? Svelte is still a mess to me, and I'm pretty sure it's horrible practice to pass a function down from `App` into `Directory` and finally into `RoomDir` where it's called. But well, I'm going to invoke sunk cost fallacy and say, I've come so far.

---

date: 2026-01-08

tags: media

content:

I came up with a media review framework:

- **Did I like it?**
- **Would I read / watch / play it again?**
- **Would I grab a random stranger off the street and make them read / watch / play it?**
- **If someone wants to read / watch / play it, would I throw myself in like a human shield to protect them from harm?**

---

date: 2026-01-08

tags: ramble

content:

Why do I feel like my ability to learn and comprehend is eroding in real time… I just wanna make a simple Svelte project…

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: webdev, meta

content:

Yay, I'm no longer writing posts in JSON! Now I can open up Obsidian and just write from there. Satisfying.

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: harmony, tir

content:

Cool new idea: Harmony, after getting the mission to collect incriminating evidence on her parents, thought that she would find none, because of course her parents aren't criminals! So she made shit up with the scanty stuff she had on them. And turns out they (at least Frosting) *did* get arrested for that and it broke her heart.

How does it justify her eagerness to join the MSS alongside Sugarcane later though?

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: intro, meta

content:

Decided to start a microblog! Will post random stuff in here that are too short for posts. Usually I spit them into my [Discord server](https://discord.gg/XzdA5vKkb2), but maybe if I spit too much the Social Media Overlords will come after my ass, who knows. It would also be nice to keep an archive of ideas, so it's easier to reference them later!

I foresee my future workflow being still spitting into Discord, but updating this here afterwards if I think it's worth saving.

Commit message:

upd M .eleventy.js blog/.obsidian/appearance.json blog/.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-linter/data.json blog/pages/microblog.md blog/posts/让我们说中文.md style.css

blog/pages/microblog.md, after:

---
permalink: false
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

date: 2026-02-01

tags: meta, ramble, webdev

content:

Below is just me writing bullshit to look cool. Have I mentioned how pretty Arabic script is? Also I might wanna learn Old Uyghur Script just for the sake of it.

Also, I made some accommodations for right-to-left text. Basically added a Markdown-it plugin to forcibly add `dir="auto"` to every paragraph. And did the line-break lyrics thing! It's kind of hacky, basically I removed the text-indent on paragraphs that have a line-break in them (just assuming these are all lyrics).

If I ever get good enough to write an entire blog post, that's a future concern.

---

date: 2026-02-01

tags: status, ئۇيغۇرچە

content:

بۈگۈن مېنىڭ ئون توققۇزىنچى تۇغۇلغان كۈنۈم. بۇ يىل ئون توققۇز ياش!

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: tir, meta

content:

*\*Looking at the wrecks of the Chinese site\** What a fucking mess… Yet I cannot and *will* not remove it. Just keep it as a mess. One day I will have the motivation to work on it.

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: media, bookworming, wings-of-fire

content:

*Wings of Fire* book 16??? Gotta reread the previous arcs now! On a completely unrelated note I found my old *WoF* fanfic from like 2021. It's a seesaw between "I was a genius" and "what the fuck was I thinking."

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: ramble

content:

Past-me has a severe advantage over present-me. She always beats me to everything.

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: ramble

content:

*\*Doing homework\** I cringe with every word I type… is this really my writing??

---

date: 2026-01-31

tags: status, ramble

content:

Someone save me and my sleep schedule…

---

date: 2026-01-30

tags: media, playing, blue-prince, lorelei

content:

Blue Prince: You did a great job solving these puzzles, I will give you this entire mansion with all the land around it! Three times!

Lorelei: You did a great job solving these puzzles, I will give you a one-dollar bill!

---

date: 2026-01-29

tags: ramble

content:

My parents used to chase me around with lip balm. Now I'm applying it out of my own volition. How the tides have turned.

---

date: 2026-01-29

tags: playing, media, lorelei

content:

Re: [#28](#28): Whoops, didn't manage to catch everything in the screenshots. Walkthrough guides still saved my ass though.

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: ramble, wings-of-fire

content:

I relate more and more to Blue. I find myself wondering more and more what goes on in the lives of other people? What made them the way they are? What different experiences did they have? What would I have looked like if I grew up in their shoes? On the internet too. This guy making detailed game guides? That artist who hasn't posted in years?

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: meta, webdev

content:

I, like, immediately changed my mind about the checkbox and exclude tags thing. You're now back to only viewing a single tag at a time.

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

This interrogation shit is easy; just screenshot everything!

---

date: 2026-01-28

tags: meta, webdev

content:

Added a bunch of useless new features to the microblog LOL. Now you can include and exclude multiple tags, as well as jump to the last post you read — though the latter requires JS. It does not care if you actually read the posts; it just stores the number of posts there were last time you visited and take you there should there be newer posts. So if you refresh the page, the value gets overridden.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

This game also gives you no way to back out of entering passwords. You have to enter a wrong password to quit the screen. Like some humiliation ritual.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

Hey, I have an idea. If you make a game with those "atmospheric" background music you're legally obliged to include an option to switch to a happier track.

With all seriousness though, this game doesn't even have settings to adjust volume, let alone disable background music while still allowing sound effects.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Playing Lorelei made me feel so smart because I could solve a decent number of puzzles myself. Dunno if I found Blue Prince mods earlier would I feel the same about that game though…

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Great, Blue Prince ruined me, I saw "foyer" in Lorelei and got excited, thinking the hallways are all unlocked today.

Spoilers: they aren't.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei, blue-prince

content:

Blue Prince made me scared of dates and the number 8. Lorelei made me scared of years and the number 4.

That's just great. Now I'm scared of the whole calendar.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: media, playing, lorelei

content:

I'm already freaked half to death! This isn't even a horror game, just a puzzle game! And a good one at that. I'm definitely writing a blog post when I finish this.

---

date: 2026-01-27

tags: status

content:

Me: I would finish the animation today!

Also me: slid on the snow, reached a hand out to hold onto a brick wall, successfully prevented myself from falling but cut my hand a tiny bit.

Also me, a spoiled princess: my hand hurts I will not be drawing today.

---

date: 2026-01-25

tags: tir, tadlet-kingdom

content:

Y'know, I've always been obsessed with *logical* actions characters take, and focusing on that too much makes me disregard the logical action *characters* take — what's in-character for them to do? Humans don't always take the most logical course of action. In fact, they *rarely* do. I think, in recognizing this, I can hopefully write characters with more personalities; and also make things easier for myself.

For example (this is from *Tadlet Kingdom Adventures* which has been privated for the time being) after Snowy assassinated Cloud and the Hamster police tore off a piece of her cloak, won't she ditch the cloak as soon as possible so she won't get recognized for the tear? But if that's the case, how the gang finds out that Snowy is the assassin would be a lot more convoluted (because I wrote that part not realizing the most logical action is to ditch the cloak). Also, keeping the cloak on signifies that Snowy is a dumbass, too arrogant to think the stupid hamsters would find her, and too confident in the Dog Tadlet Crown would have her back. Or maybe I'm just making excuses, who knows.

---

date: 2026-01-20

tags: tir, sparky

content:

Instead of pouring leftovers in the trash, Sparky's family throws it in Sparky's mouth.

---

date: 2026-01-20

tags: tir, sparky

content:

Sparky would get paid in Starcorp shares, zero real money. But she sells it all immediately after she gets them.

---

date: 2026-01-19

tags: 中文, ئۇيغۇرچە

content:

就像个小笨蛋似的天天抄课文……

---

date: 2026-01-17

tags: media, cains-jawbone

content:

Found my old (not that old) Cain's Jawbone notes… The urge to pick it back up…

---

date: 2026-01-17

tags: media, bookworming

content:

As much as I hate *Spy School*, the crown still has to go to *Mrs. Smith's Spy School for Girls*. Even *Spy School* can't manage to traumatize me 2 chapters in.

---

date: 2026-01-16

tags: ramble, blue-prince, media, playing

content:

I've grown more emotional as I've grown older, I think? I had watched through a lot of sad stuff as a kid and I never felt a thing, but now reading *Swim Bird*, a children's book inside a video game, drove me nearly to tears.

---

date: 2026-01-14

tags: ramble

content:

I suddenly realized, liking digital collecting explains a lot about my feeling of emptiness. It's like I collect my *own* OCs, and my collection is never complete, so I feel agonized over it, but there is no game data file I can rip everything from; I actually have to *create* them myself!

I have all the Blue Prince room thumbnails that I ripped, and the Polytopia assets that the devs had so generously shared on the internet. I used to have them on my old computer too, and now I haven't unzipped this new copy yet LOL. Now that I'm more self-aware about it, what can I collect next?

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: tir, pumpkin, halcyon

content:

Pumpkin be like: no one can find holes in a true cover story! Honey a true cover story is not a cover story. It's literally you. He's so not cut out for the secret world. Halcyon made the wrong choice, he wanted a doormat but got a, IDK, squeaky plank on the floor.

Still thinking about how the WIS finds out "Curly" is Pumpkin and how they screw him over.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: meta

content:

Still cannot decide how to tag stuff to save my life… Took on a tag set more identical to the main blog.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: tir, pumpkin, candlelight, paracosming, ramble

content:

But on a more positive note, Candlelight Back Home inspiration! So this one is a little interesting. It's based off of a bit of non-TIR-related paracosming I've been doing for a while (the entire plotline is, from its inception). And I've incorporated it into Candlelight's story. Now, I won't ever share this non-TIR-related paracosm with anyone else. But I'm actually sharing its content with you since I literally adapted its plotline here.

To be honest, I'm not really happy that I'm paracosming more about this insane real-life AU than TIR lately. And I get all the stuff I used to get with TIR too, replaying nearly-identical scenes in my head over and over. And I don't like it. Because it's based off of real-life and really, really cringe. But I know I cannot stop the paracosm train, so I just adapt that stuff into TIR.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: meta

content:

Feeling awful at the Chinese site again… why does that thing always bring me the most agony. I need to accept that it would always be hell to maintain and would always be outdated and incomplete.

---

date: 2026-01-12

tags: ramble

content:

I need to start writing down reasons why I rejected ideas. Because I keep getting the same ideas again and forgetting why they were scraped the first time I got them.

---

date: 2026-01-09

tags: webdev, blue-prince

content:

The Blue Prince House Builder is coming along well! Sometimes, I wonder if anyone is actually going to like these sorts of silly projects. But who cares, if I enjoy the process of making it, and learned from it? But that always brings me to the more difficult question — did I truly learn anything from it? Svelte is still a mess to me, and I'm pretty sure it's horrible practice to pass a function down from `App` into `Directory` and finally into `RoomDir` where it's called. But well, I'm going to invoke sunk cost fallacy and say, I've come so far.

---

date: 2026-01-08

tags: media

content:

I came up with a media review framework:

- **Did I like it?**
- **Would I read / watch / play it again?**
- **Would I grab a random stranger off the street and make them read / watch / play it?**
- **If someone wants to read / watch / play it, would I throw myself in like a human shield to protect them from harm?**

---

date: 2026-01-08

tags: ramble

content:

Why do I feel like my ability to learn and comprehend is eroding in real time… I just wanna make a simple Svelte project…

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: webdev, meta

content:

Yay, I'm no longer writing posts in JSON! Now I can open up Obsidian and just write from there. Satisfying.

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: harmony, tir

content:

Cool new idea: Harmony, after getting the mission to collect incriminating evidence on her parents, thought that she would find none, because of course her parents aren't criminals! So she made shit up with the scanty stuff she had on them. And turns out they (at least Frosting) *did* get arrested for that and it broke her heart.

How does it justify her eagerness to join the MSS alongside Sugarcane later though?

---

date: 2026-01-07

tags: intro, meta

content:

Decided to start a microblog! Will post random stuff in here that are too short for posts. Usually I spit them into my [Discord server](https://discord.gg/XzdA5vKkb2), but maybe if I spit too much the Social Media Overlords will come after my ass, who knows. It would also be nice to keep an archive of ideas, so it's easier to reference them later!

I foresee my future workflow being still spitting into Discord, but updating this here afterwards if I think it's worth saving.
