---
title: May Recap
tags:
  - diary
  - recap
date: 2025-06-01
draft: true
---

## How was the month?

I got freed from school and went back home! But well, it's more like out of the frying pan and into the fire. I just need to survive the next two months, and then my mom and I will go to Hubei to pick up my dad from the metal-scrubbing competition and we'll all go to Xinjiang again! We toured around the north last year; this year we'll go to the south! To Qeshqer and stuff! (Qeshqer (قەشقەر) is more commonly spelled as "Kashgar," but since actually learning Uyghurche, it became increasingly silly because what do you mean, the two Q's becoming one K and one G? Maybe it has something to do with the pronunciation?)

If you were in my Discord server, you'd probably have heard me going on a rant about how I wanted a 4.0 GPA but knew I couldn't get it but I still want it anyways even though I knew I didn't need it and couldn't get it but I wanted it anyways and I think I could — you get the idea. Well, guess what I ended up getting? But the crazy thing was, I was certain I would do badly on a course. I threw away 5% on an assignment I knew I couldn't do so I just gave up on it, so I was capped at 95%, and that's not counting the points I'd already lost. I was preparing for a B-. But I ended up getting an A+?? When the cutoff was 97%? Either I got the weighting completely wrong or the professor changed the weighting to curve people. Either way, nice!

The reverse engineering course was also really fun; I'm glad I took it. I was quite worried at first, you see, because it used to have a prerequisite that later got removed but the course content did not change. Good that it got removed, because that prerequisite was limited to people in the computer science program, in which I am not. But I was worried that I would do badly. But it turned out well! All of them turned out well, however, I knew that even if I time-traveled back to panicking past me, I would not have convinced myself to stop panicking. Such is the way things are.

## Milestones

- Finished the first year of college!

This section is actually just really, really similar to stuff I did. Maybe next month I should include it as a sub-section if I have content.

## Stuff I did

- Finished *Wings of Fire* reread, and *The Hybrid Prince*!
- 100 characters recorded on the TIR site!
- Made it to 30k words on *The Spy School in Flower City*!
- Brand new look on the Favorites Leaderboard!
- This sounds silly, but I was *trying* to find a good Arabic font so I'd stop using Google's Noto Sans. Doesn't help that, even when I flipped past all those "Arabic-themed" Latin fonts, I still couldn't find a font prettier than Noto Sans Arabic! I'm not even limiting myself to Uyghurche alphabet now, since I figured that pure-Arabic fonts would have better availability and I could harness the wild horse that is FontForge to complete any missing Uyghur letters.

## Stuff I want to do

- Well, I foresee not much work with regards to anything really for the next two months due to, you know, being on fire. How much art I could draw for Artfight even still remains a question mark. But I'll try!
- Meanwhile, Writing *Spy School* is my only to-do for now.
